Custom Scrollbar API Review (#4073) (#4221)
MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback: specs/CustomScrollbar.md

Custom Scrollbar Style
===

# Background
Developers would like to be able to set the scrollbar to Windows fluent overlay style and 
match the Windows theme. Some customers have used browser flags but they change names and behavior and are not reliable. Thus we want

> to provide an extendable API that allows developers to set scrollbar style. Currently, 

Reviewer: @david-risney It occurred to me that the extensibility does have a problem: Suppose we later add a new scrollbar style, call it `Awesome`. How does the C++ client know whether or not the current CoreWebView2 supports Awesome? The C++ client builds the `CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions` in-proc from its own internal library, so its call to `put_ScrollBarStyle(Awesome)` succeeds. But it doesn't find out until `CoreWebView2Environment.CreateAsync(options)` fails with `E_INVALIDARG`. 

At this point, the app isn't sure which of the 25 options is invalid. It could try scaling back each option until the call succeeds, but you don't know which order to scale them back. 

Most of the CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions are just ignored if they aren't supported (because the runtime never queries for them). This one is weird because the option is an enum, which means that the runtime may see a value it doesn't like.

I guess what you have to do is start with a minimal version, and then slowly add more stuff. "Okay, first I'll try ColorScheme=Light. Cool that worked. How about ColorScheme=MorningFog? Nope, didn't work. Okay I'll stick with Light. Next to see what I can configure for touch targeting. First, I'll try TouchTargeting=Simple. Okay that worked. How about TouchTargeting=Tether? Nope, didn't work. Okay, so I'll stick with Simple. Now to scroll bars..."

You could end up creating a ton of temporary Environment objects while trying to probe which features you can actually use.

Author: What if we don't fail WV2 creation if an non-exist scrollbar was used? Just fall back to Default?

Reviewer 2: This is an existing issue we have the EnvironmentOptions but previously we've only been looking at it for EnviromentOptions.AdditionalBrowserArguments (real feedback from partners). I'm going to talk with @aluhrs13 about this to see how we might accommodate additional properties on the EnvironmentOptions. Thanks.

Author: Agreed to track this separately as we have similar issue in the past.

only Windows fluent overlay are supported, adding new styles in the future will not introduce
any breaking changes.

# Examples
## WinRT and .NET   
```c#

> /// Create WebView Environment with option

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
// Create WebView Environment with option
```

Reviewer 2: Please fix.

async void CreateEnvironmentWithOption()
{
    CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions options = new CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions();

>     options.CustomScrollbarStyle = ScrollbarStyle.WindowOverlay;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    options.ScrollbarStyle = ScrollbarStyle.FluentOverlay;
```

Reviewer 2: Please fix.

>     options.CustomScrollbarStyle = ScrollbarStyle.WindowOverlay;

Reviewer 4: Is there precedence for `Scrollbar` vs `ScrollBar`? Xaml is all `ScrollBar`. I think that's right; dictionary.com doesn't know "scrollbar"

Reviewer 2: In the web world, `scrollbar` appears to come as one word (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/search?q=scrollbar). But I don't mind ScrollBar to be consistent with the rest of Windows.

Reviewer 2: Please change to ScrollBar

>     options.CustomScrollbarStyle = ScrollbarStyle.WindowOverlay;

Reviewer 4: Just checking - "fluent overlay" comes from Fluent UI?

Reviewer 2: Correct

Reviewer 2: No change required

>     options.CustomScrollbarStyle = ScrollbarStyle.WindowOverlay;

Reviewer 4: Wondering about the word "Style". That word can be confused with CSS style and Xaml style. Is it literally triggering a CSS style?

Reviewer 2: This is not associated with CSS. Happy to rename if helpful.

And actually there are preview CSS styles that modify the scrollbar. We should explicitly document that those are applied on top of whatever native scrollbar styling is selected with this API.

Reviewer 2: Keep name but please update refdocs to note about CSS for scrollbars applying on top.

    CoreWebView2Environment environment = await CoreWebView2Environment.CreateAsync(options: options);
    webview.EnsureCoreWebView2Async(environment);
}
```

## Win32 C++
```cpp
void AppWindow::InitializeWebView()
{
    auto options = Microsoft::WRL::Make<CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions>();
    COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE style = COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE_FLUENT_OVERLAY;

>     CHECK_FAILURE(options->put_CustomScrollbarStyle(style));

Reviewer 3: Mismatch with interface definition:
```suggestion
    CHECK_FAILURE(options->put_ScrollbarStyle(style));
```

Reviewer 2: Please update code to match actual names.

    // ... other option properties

    // ... CreateCoreWebView2EnvironmentWithOptions
}
```

# API Notes

See [API Details](#api-details) section below for API reference.

# API Details
## Win32 C++

```IDL
interface ICoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions7;

[v1_enum]
typedef enum COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE {
  /// Browser default scrollbar style
  COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE_DEFAULT,
  /// Window style fluent overlay scroll bar
  /// Please see [Fluent UI](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/fluentui#/)
  /// for more details on fluent UI.
  COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE_FLUENT_OVERLAY
} COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE;

/// Additional options used to create WebView2 Environment.
[uuid(9c8ac95a-6b5f-4efb-b5f6-98bb33469759), object, pointer_default(unique)]
interface ICoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions7 : ICoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions6 {
  /// Get the scrollbar style being set on the WebView2 Environment.
  [propget] HRESULT ScrollbarStyle([out, retval] COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE* value);

>   /// Set scrollbar style to be used. Default to be `COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE`
>   /// that matches the default browser scrollbar style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /// Set scrollbar style to be used. The default is `COREWEBVIEW2_SCROLLBAR_STYLE_DEFAULT`
  /// which specifies the default browser scrollbar style.
```

Reviewer 2: Please fix.
